README.md, before:

# Psyanim 2.0 - Introduction and Overview

Psyanim 2.0 is a tool for rapid design, prototyping and deployment of psychology research experiments involving 2D procedural animation.

---

For a quick intro to Psyanim 2.0, check out our [Hello Psyanim 2.0](/hello_psyanim_2.md) tutorial!

The [Hello Psyanim 2.0](/hello_psyanim_2.md) tutorial is designed to get you familiar with the core concepts in Psyanim 2.0, as well as Psyanim project structures and using the Psyanim-CLI to manage creation of projects, scenes and components.

---

For a deeper understanding of creating interactive, animated content in Psyanim 2.0, check out the [Scenes and Entities](/scenes_and_entities.md) and [Entities and Components](/entities_and_components.md) tutorials.

These are a bit longer, but should give you a solid foundation to build interactive content in Psyanim 2.0.

---

Checkout the [Psyanim API docs](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-api-docs) repo and serve them up locally while you develop so you can see all the existing prefabs and components at a glance instead of checking out the whole Psyanim 2.0 repo.

You can also always look at the API docs in the [Psyanim 2.0](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-2) repo itself.

---

For more advanced examples, including how to use Psyanim 2.0 Core components, check out the [test scenes](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-2/tree/master/test/scenes) in the [Psyanim 2.0](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-2/tree/master) repo, as well as the [Psyanim Examples](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-examples) repo.

Commit message:

implemented the bulk of our 'Quick Start: Scenes and Entities' tutorial.. + more structural / organizational updates.

README.md, after:

# Psyanim 2.0 - Introduction and Overview

`Psyanim 2.0` is a tool for rapid design, prototyping and deployment of psychology research experiments involving 2D procedural game AI & animation.

In order to create experiments with different `Psyanim` scenes and agent behaviors, a basic understanding of Javascript is recommended, but not beyond what is required to use [jsPsych](https://www.jspsych.org/).

To extend Psyanim with new functionality or AI behavior algorithms, an intermediate level of comfort with Javascript is recommended.

The `Quick Start` tutorials will get you up and running with a basic Javascript background.

The `Psyanim In-Depth` tutorials are only necessary if you plan on extending Psyanim with new functionality or AI behavior algorithms.

---

For more advanced examples, including how to use Psyanim 2.0 Core components, check out the [test scenes](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-2/tree/master/test/scenes) in the [Psyanim 2.0](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-2/tree/master) repo, as well as the [Psyanim Examples](https://github.com/thefinnlab/psyanim-examples) repo.
